.\" Copyright Andries Brouwer, Ragnar Hojland Espinosa and A. Wik, 1998.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the LDP GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 1, September 1998
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH CHGRP 1 "August 1998" "GNU fileutils 3.16"
.SH NAME
chgrp \- change group ownership of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "chgrp [" options "] " "group file..."
.sp
POSIX options:
.B [\-R]
.sp
GNU options (shortest form):
.B [\-cfvR]
.B "[\-\-help] [\-\-version] [\-\-]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chgrp
changes the group ownership of each given
.I file
to
.I group,
which can be either a group name or a numeric group ID.
.SH "POSIX OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-R
Recursively change the group ownership of directories and their contents.
(And continue even when errors are encountered.)
.SH "GNU OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-c, \-\-changes"
Verbosely describe the action for each
.I file
whose group actually changes.
.TP
.B "\-f, \-\-silent, \-\-quiet"
Do not print error messages about files whose group cannot be changed.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-no\-dereference"
Act on symbolic links themselves instead of what they point to.
Only available if the
.B lchown
system call is provided.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Verbosely describe the action or non-action taken for every
.IR file .
.TP
.B "\-R, \-\-recursive"
Recursively change the group ownership of directories and their contents.
.SH "GNU STANDARD OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-version"
Print version information on standard output, then exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-"
Terminate option list.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The variables LANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE and LC_MESSAGES have the
usual meaning.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
POSIX 1003.2 only requires the \-R option. Use of other options
may not be portable.
.SH NOTES
This page describes
.B chgrp
as found in the fileutils-3.16 package;
other versions may differ slightly. Mail corrections and additions to
aeb@cwi.nl, aw@mail1.bet1.puv.fi and ragnar@lightside.ddns.org.
Report bugs in the program to fileutils-bugs@gnu.ai.mit.edu.
