.\" Copyright Andries Brouwer, Ragnar Hojland Espinosa and A. Wik, 1998.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the conditions described
.\" in the LDP GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE, Version 1, September 1998
.\" that should have been distributed together with this file.
.\"
.TH DU 1 "August 1998" "GNU fileutils 3.16"
.SH NAME
du \- estimate file space usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "du [" options "] [" file... ]
.sp
POSIX options:
.B [\-askx]
.sp
GNU options (shortest form):
.B [\-abchklmsxDLS]
.B "[\-\-help] [\-\-version] [\-\-]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B du
reports the amount of disk space used by the specified files,
and by each directory in the hierarchies rooted at the
specified files.
Here `disk space used' means space used for the entire
file hierarchy below the specified file.
.PP
With no arguments,
.B du
reports the disk space for the current directory.
.SH "POSIX DETAILS"
The output is in 512-byte units by default, but in
1024-byte units when the \-k option is given.
.SH "GNU DETAILS"
The output is in 1024-byte units (when no units are
specified by options), unless the environment variable
.B POSIXLY_CORRECT
is set, in which case POSIX is followed.
.SH "POSIX OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-a"
Show counts for all files encountered, not just directories.
.TP
.B "\-k"
Use 1024-byte units instead of the default 512-byte units.
.TP
.B "\-s"
Only output space usage for the actual arguments given,
not for their subdirectories.
.TP
.B "\-x"
Only count space on the same device as the argument given.
.SH "GNU OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-a, \-\-all"
Show counts for all files, not just directories.
.TP
.B "\-b, \-\-bytes"
Print sizes in bytes, instead of kilobytes.
.TP
.B "\-c, \-\-total"
Print a grand total of all arguments after all arguments have been
processed.  This can be used to find out the total disk usage of a
given set of files or directories.
.TP
.B "\-D, \-\-dereference\-args"
Dereference symbolic links that are command line arguments.  Does
not affect other symbolic links.  This is helpful for finding out
the disk usage of directories, such as
.IR /usr/tmp ,
which are often symbolic links.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-human\-readable"
Append a size letter, such as
.B M
for megabytes, to each size.
.TP
.B "\-k, \-\-kilobytes"
Print sizes in kilobytes.
.TP
.B "\-l, \-\-count\-links"
Count the size of all files, even if they have appeared already
(as a hard link).
.TP
.B "\-L, \-\-dereference"
Dereference symbolic links (show the disk space used by the file
or directory that the link points to instead of the space used by
the link).
.TP
.B "\-m, \-\-megabytes"
Print sizes in megabyte (that 1,048,576 bytes) blocks.
.TP
.B "\-s, \-\-summarize"
Display only a total for each argument.
.TP
.B "\-S, \-\-separate\-dirs"
Report the size of each directory separately, not including the
sizes of subdirectories.
.TP
.B "\-x, \-\-one\-file\-system"
Skip directories that are on different filesystems from the one
that the argument being processed is on.
.SH "GNU STANDARD OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-version"
Print version information on standard output, then exit successfully.
.TP
.B "\-\-"
Terminate option list.
.SH BUGS
On BSD systems,
.B du
reports sizes that are half the correct values
for files that are NFS-mounted from HP-UX systems.  On HP-UX systems,
it reports sizes that are twice the correct values for files that are
NFS-mounted from BSD systems.  This is due to a flaw in HP-UX; it also
affects the HP-UX
.B du
program.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The variable POSIXLY_CORRECT determines the choice of unit.
The variables LANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE and LC_MESSAGES have the
usual meaning.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
POSIX 1003.2
.SH NOTES
This page describes
.B du
as found in the fileutils-3.16 package;
other versions may differ slightly. Mail corrections and additions to
aeb@cwi.nl and aw@mail1.bet1.puv.fi and ragnar@lightside.ddns.org .
Report bugs in the program to fileutils-bugs@gnu.ai.mit.edu.
