.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\" This file may be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:46:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH PASSWD 5 "24 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
passwd \- password file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Passwd
is an ASCII file which contains a list of the system's users and the
passwords they must use for access.  The password file should have read
access for everyone, which is ok because of the encryption, but write
access only for the superuser.  If you create a new login, leave the
password field empty and use \fBpasswd\fP(2) to fill it.  A star or
something like that in the password field means, that this user can not
login via \fBlogin\fP(1).  If your root file system is on /dev/ram, you
must save a changed password file to your root file system floppy, before
you shutdown the system and check the access rights.  If you want to create
user groups, their GID's must be equal and there must be an entry in
\fI/etc/group\fP, or no group will exist.
.PP
There is one entry per line, and each line has the format:
.sp
.RS
login_name:passwd:GID:UID:user_name:directory:shell
.RE
.sp
The field descriptions are:
.sp
.RS
.TP 1.0in
login_name
the name of the user on the system.
.TP
.B password
the encrypted optional user password.
.TP
.B GID
the numerical group ID for this user.
.TP
.B UID
the numerical user ID.
.TP
.B user_name
the (optional) comment field (often a full user name).
.TP
.B directory
the user's $HOME directory.
.TP
.B shell
the program to run at logon (if empty, use /bin/sh).
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd "(1), " login "(1), " group (5)
