.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 by Daniel Quinlan (quinlan@yggdrasil.com)
.\" with networking additions from Alan Cox (A.Cox@swansea.ac.uk)
.\" and scsi additions from Michael Neuffer (neuffer@mail.uni-mainz.de)
.\" and sysctl additions from Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Wed May 17 15:26:04 1995: faith@cs.unc.edu, updated BUGS section
.\" Minor changes by aeb and Marty Leisner (leisner@sdsp.mc.xerox.com).
.\" Sat Apr 13 02:32:45 1996: aeb@cwi.nl, added sys, various fixes.
.\" Mon Jul 22 17:14:44 1996: aeb@cwi.nl, minor fix.
.\" Sun Dec 16 11:39:19 2001: rwhron@earthlink.net, update for 2.4.
.\"
.TH PROC 5 2001-12-16 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
proc \- process information pseudo-filesystem

.SH DESCRIPTION
/proc is a pseudo-filesystem which is used as an interface to kernel
data structures rather than reading and interpreting /dev/kmem.
Most of it is read-only, but some files allow kernel variables to be changed.
.LP
The following outline gives a quick tour through the /proc hierarchy.
.LP
.\" .na
.\" .nh
.PD 1
.TP
.I [number]
There is a numerical subdirectory for each running process; the
subdirectory is named by the process ID.  Each contains the following
pseudo-files and directories.
.RS
.TP
.I cmdline
This holds the complete command line for the process, unless the whole
process has been swapped out, or unless the process is a zombie.  In
either of these later cases, there is nothing in this file: i.e. a
read on this file will return as having read 0 characters.  This file
is null-terminated, but not newline-terminated.
.TP
.I cwd
This is a link to the current working directory of the process.  To find out
the cwd of process 20, for instance, you can do this:

.br
.nf
.ft CW
cd /proc/20/cwd; /bin/pwd
.fi
.ft

Note that the pwd command is often a shell builtin, and might
not work properly. In bash, you may use pwd -P.
.TP
.I environ
This file contains the environment for the process.
The entries are separated by null characters,
and there may be a null character at the end.
Thus, to print out the environment of process 1, you would do:

.br
.nf
.ft CW
(cat /proc/1/environ; echo) | tr "\\000" "\\n"
.fi
.ft P

(For a reason why one should want to do this, see
.BR lilo (8).)
.TP
.I exe
Under Linux 2.2 and 2.4 
.I exe
is a symbolic link containing the actual path name of the executed command.
The 
.I exe
symbolic link can be dereferenced normally - attempting to open 
.I exe
will open the executable.  You can even type
.I /proc/[number]/exe
to run another copy of the same process as [number].

Under Linux 2.0 and earlier
.I exe
is a pointer to the binary which was executed, 
and appears as a symbolic link. A
.BR readlink (2)
call on the
.I exe
special file under Linux 2.0 returns a string in the format:

[device]:inode

For example, [0301]:1502 would be inode 1502 on device major 03 (IDE,
MFM, etc. drives) minor 01 (first partition on the first drive).

.BR find (1)
with the -inum option can be used to locate the file.
.TP
.I fd
This is a subdirectory containing one entry for each file which the
process has open, named by its file descriptor, and which is a
symbolic link to the actual file (as the exe entry does).  Thus, 0 is
standard input, 1 standard output, 2 standard error, etc.

Programs that will take a filename, but will not take the standard
input, and which write to a file, but will not send their output to
standard output, can be effectively foiled this way, assuming that -i
is the flag designating an input file and -o is the flag designating
an output file:
.br
.nf
\f(CWfoobar -i /proc/self/fd/0 -o /proc/self/fd/1 ...\fR
.fi
.br
and you have a working filter.  Note that this will not work for
programs that seek on their files, as the files in the fd directory
are not seekable.

/proc/self/fd/N is approximately the same as /dev/fd/N in some UNIX
and UNIX-like systems.  Most Linux MAKEDEV scripts symbolically link
/dev/fd to /proc/self/fd, in fact.
.TP
.I maps
A file containing the currently mapped memory regions and their access
permissions.

The format is:

.nf
.ft CW
.in 8n
address           perms offset  dev   inode      pathname
08048000-08056000 r-xp 00000000 03:0c 64593      /usr/sbin/gpm
08056000-08058000 rw-p 0000d000 03:0c 64593      /usr/sbin/gpm
08058000-0805b000 rwxp 00000000 00:00 0
40000000-40013000 r-xp 00000000 03:0c 4165       /lib/ld-2.2.4.so
40013000-40015000 rw-p 00012000 03:0c 4165       /lib/ld-2.2.4.so
4001f000-40135000 r-xp 00000000 03:0c 45494      /lib/libc-2.2.4.so
40135000-4013e000 rw-p 00115000 03:0c 45494      /lib/libc-2.2.4.so
4013e000-40142000 rw-p 00000000 00:00 0
bffff000-c0000000 rwxp 00000000 00:00 0
.ft
.fi
.in

where address is the address space in the process that it occupies,
perms is a set of permissions:

.nf
.in +5
r = read
w = write
x = execute
s = shared
p = private (copy on write)
.fi
.in

offset is the offset into the file/whatever, dev is the device
(major:minor), and inode is the inode on that device.  0 indicates
that no inode is associated with the memory region, as the case would
be with bss.

Under Linux 2.0 there is no field giving pathname.
.TP
.I mem
Via the
.I mem
file one can access the pages of a process's memory through
.IR open(2) ", " read(2) ", and " fseek(3) "."
.TP
.I root
Unix and Linux support the idea of a per-process root of the
filesystem, set by the
.BR chroot (2)
system call.  Root points to the file system root, and behaves as exe,
fd/*, etc. do.
.TP
.I stat
Status information about the process.  This is used by
.BR ps (1).  
It is defined in 
.IR /usr/src/linux/fs/proc/array.c "."

The fields, in order, with their proper
.BR scanf (3)
format specifiers, are:
.RS
.TP
\fIpid\fP %d
The process id.
.TP
\fIcomm\fP %s
The filename of the executable, in parentheses.  This is visible
whether or not the executable is swapped out.
.TP
\fIstate\fP %c
One character from the string "RSDZTW" where R is running, S is
sleeping in an interruptible wait, D is waiting in uninterruptible
disk sleep, Z is zombie, T is traced or stopped (on a signal),
and W is paging.
.TP
\fIppid\fP %d
The PID of the parent.
.TP
\fIpgrp\fP %d
The process group ID of the process.
.TP
\fIsession\fP %d
The session ID of the process.
.TP
.\" tty_nr needs better explanation.
\fItty_nr\fP %d
The tty the process uses.
.TP
\fItpgid\fP %d
The process group ID of the process which currently owns the tty that
the process is connected to.
.TP
\fIflags\fP %lu
The flags of the process.
The math bit is decimal 4, and the traced bit is decimal 10.
.TP
\fIminflt\fP %lu
The number of minor faults the process has made which have not
required loading a memory page from disk.
.TP
\fIcminflt\fP %lu
The number of minor faults that the process and its children have
made.
.TP
\fImajflt\fP %lu
The number of major faults the process has made which have
required loading a memory page from disk.
.TP
\fIcmajflt\fP %lu
The number of major faults that the process and its children have
made.
.TP
\fIutime\fP %lu
The number of jiffies that this process has been scheduled in user
mode.
.TP
\fIstime\fP %lu
The number of jiffies that this process has been scheduled in kernel
mode.
.TP
\fIcutime\fP %ld
The number of jiffies that this process and its children have been
scheduled in user mode.
.TP
\fIcstime\fP %ld
The number of jiffies that this process and its children have been
scheduled in kernel mode.
.TP
\fIpriority\fP %ld
The standard nice value, plus fifteen.  The value is never negative in
the kernel.
.TP
\fInice\fP %ld
The nice value ranges from 19 (nicest) to -19 (not nice to others).
.TP
.\" .TP
.\" \fIcounter\fP %ld
.\" The current maximum size in jiffies of the process's next timeslice,
.\" or what is currently left of its current timeslice, if it is the
.\" currently running process.
.\" .TP
.\" \fItimeout\fP %u
.\" The time in jiffies of the process's next timeout.
\fI0\fP %ld
This value is hard coded to 0 as a placeholder for a removed field.
.TP
\fIitrealvalue\fP %ld
The time in jiffies before the next SIGALRM is sent to the process
due to an interval timer.
.TP
\fIstarttime\fP %lu
The time in jiffies the process started after system boot.
.TP
\fIvsize\fP %lu
Virtual memory size in bytes.
.TP
\fIrss\fP %ld
Resident Set Size: number of pages the process has in real memory,
minus 3 for administrative purposes. This is just the pages which
count towards text, data, or stack space.  This does not include pages
which have not been demand-loaded in, or which are swapped out.
.TP
\fIrlim\fP %lu
Current limit in bytes on the rss of the process (usually
4,294,967,295).
.TP
\fIstartcode\fP %lu
The address above which program text can run.
.TP
\fIendcode\fP %lu
The address below which program text can run.
.TP
\fIstartstack\fP %lu
The address of the start of the stack.
.TP
\fIkstkesp\fP %lu
The current value of esp (stack pointer), as found in the
kernel stack page for the process.
.TP
\fIkstkeip\fP %lu
The current EIP (instruction pointer).
.TP
\fIsignal\fP %lu
The bitmap of pending signals (usually 0).
.TP
\fIblocked\fP %lu
The bitmap of blocked signals (usually 0, 2 for shells).
.TP
\fIsigignore\fP %lu
The bitmap of ignored signals.
.TP
\fIsigcatch\fP %lu
The bitmap of catched signals.
.TP
\fIwchan\fP %lu
This is the "channel" in which the process is waiting.  It is the
address of a system call, and can be looked up in a namelist if you
need a textual name.  (If you have an up-to-date /etc/psdatabase, then
try \fIps -l\fP to see the WCHAN field in action.)
.TP
\fInswap\fP %lu
Number of pages swapped - not maintained.
.TP
\fIcnswap\fP %lu
Cumulative \fInswap\fP for child processes.
.TP
\fIexit_signal\fP %d
Signal to be sent to parent when we die.
.TP
\fIprocessor\fP %d
Processor number last executed on.
.RE
.TP
.I statm
Provides information about memory status in pages.  The columns are:
 size       total program size
 resident   resident set size
 share      shared pages
 trs        text (code)
 drs        data/stack
 lrs        library
 dt         dirty pages
.TP
.I status
Provides much of the information in
.I stat
and
.I statm
in an format that's easier for humans to parse.
.RE
.TP
.I bus
Contains subdirectories for installed busses.
.RS
.TP
.I pci
Contains various bus subdirectories and pseudo-files containing 
information about pci busses, installed devices, and device 
drivers.  Some of these files are not ASCII.  
.RS
.TP
.I devices
Information about pci devices.  They may be accessed through 
.BR lspci (8)
and
.BR setpci (8).
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I cmdline
Argments passed to the Linux kernel at boot time.  Often done via
a boot manager such as
.BR lilo (1).
.TP
.I cpuinfo
This is a collection of CPU and system architecture dependent items,
for each supported architecture a different list.
Two common entries are \fIprocessor\fP which gives CPU number and
\fIbogomips\fP; a system constant that is calculated 
during kernel initialization.  SMP machines have information for
each CPU.
.TP
.I devices
Text listing of major numbers and device groups.  This can be used by
MAKEDEV scripts for consistency with the kernel.
.TP
.I dma
This is a list of the registered \fIISA\fP DMA (direct memory access) 
channels in use.
.TP
.I driver
Empty subdirectory.
.TP
.I execdomains
List of the execution domains (ABI personalities).
.TP
.I fb
Frame buffer information when CONFIG_FB is defined during kernel 
compilation.
.TP
.I filesystems
A text listing of the filesystems which were compiled into the kernel.
Incidentally, this is used by
.BR mount (1)
to cycle through different filesystems when none is specified.
.TP
.I ide
.I ide
exists on systems with the ide bus.  There are directories for each
ide channel and attached device.  Files include:

.nf
cache              buffer size in KB
capacity           number of sectors
driver             driver version
geometry           physical and logical geometry
identify           in hexidecimal
media              media type
model              manufacturer's model number
settings           drive settings
smart_thresholds   in hexidecimal
smart_values       in hexidecimal
.fi

The 
.BR hdparm (8)
utility provides access to this information in a friendly format.
.TP
.I interrupts
This is used to record the number of interrupts per each IRQ on (at
least) the i386 architechure.  Very easy to read formatting, done in
ASCII.
.TP
.I iomem
I/O memory map in Linux 2.4.
.TP
.I ioports
This is a list of currently registered Input-Output port regions that 
are in use.
.TP
.I kcore
This file represents the physical memory of the system and is stored
in the ELF core file format.  With this pseudo-file, and an unstripped
kernel (/usr/src/linux/vmlinux) binary, GDB can be used to
examine the current state of any kernel data structures.

The total length of the file is the size of physical memory (RAM) plus
4KB.
.TP
.I kmsg
This file can be used instead of the
.BR syslog (2)
system call to log kernel messages.  A process must have superuser
privileges to read this file, and only one process should read this
file.  This file should not be read if a syslog process is running
which uses the
.BR syslog (2)
system call facility to log kernel messages.

Information in this file is retrieved with the
.BR dmesg (8)
program.
.TP
.I ksyms
This holds the kernel exported symbol definitions used by the
.BR modules (X)
tools to dynamically link and bind loadable modules.
.TP
.I loadavg
The load average numbers give the number of jobs in the run queue (state R)
or waiting for disk I/O (state D) averaged over 1, 5, and 15 minutes.
They are the same as the load average numbers given by
.BR uptime (1)
and other programs.
.TP
.I locks
This file shows current file locks.
.TP
.I malloc
This file is only present if CONFIGDEBUGMALLOC was defined during
compilation.
.TP
.I meminfo
This is used by
.BR free (1)
to report the amount of free and used memory (both physical and swap)
on the system as well as the shared memory and buffers used by the
kernel.

It is in the same format as
.BR free (1),
except in bytes rather than KB.
.TP
.I modules
A text list of the modules that have been loaded by the system.
See also
.BR lsmod (8).
.TP
.I mtrr
Memory Type Range Registers.  
See 
.I /usr/src/linux/Documentation/mtrr.txt
for details.
.TP
.I net
various net pseudo-files, all of which give the status of some part of
the networking layer.  These files contain ASCII structures and are,
therefore, readable with cat.  However, the standard
.BR netstat (8)
suite provides much cleaner access to these files.
.RS
.TP
.I arp
This holds an ASCII readable dump of the kernel ARP table used for
address resolutions. It will show both dynamically learned and
pre-programmed ARP entries.  The format is:

.nf
.ft CW
.in 8n
IP address     HW type   Flags     HW address          Mask   Device
192.168.0.50   0x1       0x2       00:50:BF:25:68:F3   *      eth0
192.168.0.250  0x1       0xc       00:00:00:00:00:00   *      eth0
.ft
.fi
.in
.PP
Here 'IP address' is the IPv4 address of the machine and the 'HW type' is the
hardware type of the address from RFC 826. The flags are the internal flags
of the ARP structure (as defined in /usr/include/linux/if_arp.h) and the 'HW
address' is the physical layer mapping for that IP address if it is known.
.TP
.I dev
The dev pseudo-file contains network device status information. This gives
the number of received and sent packets, the number of errors and collisions
and other basic statistics. These are used by the
.BR ifconfig (8)
program to report device status.  The format is:

.nf
.ft CW
.in 1n
Inter-|   Receive                                                |  Transmit
 face |bytes    packets errs drop fifo frame compressed multicast|bytes    packets errs drop fifo colls carrier compressed
    lo: 2776770   11307    0    0    0     0          0         0  2776770   11307    0    0    0     0       0          0
  eth0: 1215645    2751    0    0    0     0          0         0  1782404    4324    0    0    0   427       0          0
  ppp0: 1622270    5552    1    0    0     0          0         0   354130    5669    0    0    0     0       0          0
  tap0:    7714      81    0    0    0     0          0         0     7714      81    0    0    0     0       0          0
.in
.ft
.fi
.\" .TP
.\" .I ipx
.\" No information.
.\" .TP
.\" .I ipx_route
.\" No information.
.TP
.I rarp
This file uses the same format as the
.I arp
file and contains the current reverse mapping database used to provide
.BR rarp (8)
reverse address lookup services. If RARP is not configured into the kernel,
this file will not be present.
.TP
.I raw
Holds a dump of the RAW socket table. Much of the information is not of use
apart from debugging. The 'sl' value is the kernel hash slot for the socket,
the 'local address' is the local address and protocol number pair."St" is
the internal status of the socket. The "tx_queue" and "rx_queue" are the
outgoing and incoming data queue in terms of kernel memory usage. The "tr",
"tm->when", and "rexmits" fields are not used by RAW. The uid field holds the
creator euid of the socket.
.\" .TP
.\" .I route
.\" No information, but looks similar to
.\" .BR route (8).
.TP
.I snmp
This file holds the ASCII data needed for the IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP management
information bases for an snmp agent. 
.TP
.I tcp
Holds a dump of the TCP socket table. Much of the information is not of use
apart from debugging. The "sl" value is the kernel hash slot for the socket,
the "local address" is the local address and port number pair. The "remote
address" is the remote address and port number pair (if connected). 'St' is
the internal status of the socket. The 'tx_queue' and 'rx_queue' are the
outgoing and incoming data queue in terms of kernel memory usage. The "tr",
"tm->when", and "rexmits" fields hold internal information of the kernel
socket state and are only useful for debugging. The uid field holds the
creator euid of the socket.
.TP
.I udp
Holds a dump of the UDP socket table. Much of the information is not of use
apart from debugging. The "sl" value is the kernel hash slot for the socket,
the "local address" is the local address and port number pair. The "remote
address" is the remote address and port number pair (if connected). "St" is
the internal status of the socket. The "tx_queue" and "rx_queue" are the
outgoing and incoming data queue in terms of kernel memory usage. The "tr",
"tm->when", and "rexmits" fields are not used by UDP. The uid field holds the
creator euid of the socket.  The format is:

.nf
.ft CW
.in 1n
sl  local_address rem_address   st tx_queue rx_queue tr rexmits  tm->when uid
 1: 01642C89:0201 0C642C89:03FF 01 00000000:00000001 01:000071BA 00000000 0
 1: 00000000:0801 00000000:0000 0A 00000000:00000000 00:00000000 6F000100 0
 1: 00000000:0201 00000000:0000 0A 00000000:00000000 00:00000000 00000000 0
.in
.ft
.fi
.TP
.I unix
Lists the UNIX domain sockets present within the system and their
status.  The format is:
.nf
.sp .5
.ft CW
Num RefCount Protocol Flags    Type St Path
 0: 00000002 00000000 00000000 0001 03
 1: 00000001 00000000 00010000 0001 01 /dev/printer
.ft
.sp .5
.fi
.PP
Here 'Num' is the kernel table slot number, 'RefCount' is the number
of users of the socket, 'Protocol' is currently always 0, 'Flags'
represent the internal kernel flags holding the status of the
socket. Currently, type is always '1' (Unix domain datagram sockets are
not yet supported in the kernel). 'St' is the internal state of the
socket and Path is the bound path (if any) of the socket.
.RE
.TP
.I partitions
Contains major and minor numbers of each partition as well as number
of blocks and partition name.
.TP
.I pci
This is a listing of all PCI devices found during kernel initialization
and their configuration.
.TP
.I scsi
A directory with the scsi midlevel pseudo-file and various SCSI lowlevel driver 
directories, which contain a file for each SCSI host in this system, all of 
which give the status of some part of the SCSI IO subsystem.  
These files contain ASCII structures and are, therefore, readable with cat.  

You can also write to some of the files to reconfigure the subsystem or switch
certain features on or off.
.RS
.TP
.I scsi
This is a listing of all SCSI devices known to the kernel. The listing is 
similar to the one seen during bootup.
scsi currently supports only the \fIadd-single-device\fP command which allows
root to add a hotplugged device to the list of known devices.

An 
.B echo 'scsi add-single-device 1 0 5 0' > /proc/scsi/scsi 
will cause 
host scsi1 to scan on SCSI channel 0 for a device on ID 5 LUN 0. If there 
is already a device known on this address or the address is invalid, an
error will be returned.
.TP
.I drivername
\fIdrivername\fP can currently be NCR53c7xx, aha152x, aha1542, aha1740, 
aic7xxx, buslogic, eata_dma, eata_pio, fdomain, in2000, pas16, qlogic, 
scsi_debug, seagate, t128, u15-24f, ultrastore, or wd7000. 
These directories show up for all drivers that registered at least one SCSI 
HBA. Every directory contains one file per registered host. Every host-file is
named after the number the host was assigned during initialization. 

Reading these files will usually show driver and host configuration, 
statistics etc.

Writing to these files allows different things on different hosts.
For example, with the \fIlatency\fP and \fInolatency\fP commands,
root can switch on and off command latency measurement code in the
eata_dma driver. With the \fIlockup\fP and \fIunlock\fP commands,
root can control bus lockups simulated by the scsi_debug driver. 
.RE
.TP
.I self
This directory refers to the process accessing the /proc filesystem,
and is identical to the /proc directory named by the process ID of the
same process.
.TP
.I slabinfo
Information about kernel caches.  The columns are:
.nf
cache-name
num-active-objs
total-objs
object-size
num-active-slabs
total-slabs
num-pages-per-slab
.fi
See 
.BR slabinfo (5)
for details.
.TP
.I stat
kernel/system statistics.  Varies with architecture.  Common 
entries include:
.RS
.TP
\fIcpu  3357 0 4313 1362393\fP
The number of jiffies (1/100ths of a second) that the system spent in
user mode, user mode with low priority (nice), system mode, and the
idle task, respectively.  The last value should be 100 times the
second entry in the uptime pseudo-file.
.TP
\fIpage 5741 1808\fP
The number of pages the system paged in and the number that were paged
out (from disk).
.TP
\fIswap 1 0\fP
The number of swap pages that have been brought in and out.
.TP
\fIintr 1462898\fP
The number of interrupts received from the system boot.
.TP
\fIdisk_io: (2,0):(31,30,5764,1,2) (3,0):\fP...
(major,minor):(noinfo, read_io_ops, blks_read, write_io_ops, blks_written)
.TP
\fIctxt 115315\fP
The number of context switches that the system underwent.
.TP
\fIbtime 769041601\fP
boot time, in seconds since the epoch (January 1, 1970).
.TP
\fIprocesses 86031\fP
Number of forks since boot.
.RE
.TP
.I swaps
Swap areas in use.  See also
.BR swapon (8).
.TP
.I sys
This directory (present since 1.3.57) contains a number of files
and subdirectories corresponding to kernel variables.
These variables can be read and sometimes modified using
the \fIproc\fP file system, and the
.BR sysctl (2)
system call. Presently, there are subdirectories
.IR abi ", " debug ", " dev ", " fs ", " kernel ", " net ", " proc " and " vm
that each contain more files and subdirectories.
.RS
.TP
.I abi
This directory may be empty.
.TP
.I debug
This directory may be empty.
.TP
.I dev
This directory may be empty.
.TP
.I fs
This contains files
.IR dentry-state ", " dir-notify-enable ", " dquot-nr ", " file-max ", " 
.IR file-nr ", " inode-nr ", " inode-state ", " lease-break-time ", " 
.IR leases-enable ", " overflowgid " and " overflowuid
with function fairly clear from the name.
.LP
The (read-only) file
.I file-nr
gives the number of files presently opened.
.LP
The file
.I file-max
gives the maximum number of open files the kernel is willing
to handle. If 1024 is not enough for you, try
.br
.nf
.ft CW
echo 4096 > /proc/sys/kernel/file-max
.fi
.ft
.LP
Similarly, the files
.I inode-nr
and
.I inode-max
indicate the present and the maximum number of inodes.
.RE
.TP
.I kernel
This contains files
.IR cad_pid "," cap-bound  ","  core_uses_pid  "," ctrl-alt-del  
.IR domainname "," hostname ", " modprobe ", " msgmax ", " msgmnb ", " 
.IR msgmni ", " osrelease ", " ostype ", " overflowgid ", " overflowuid ", " 
.IR panic ", " printk ", " random ", " rtsig-max ", " rtsig-nr ", " sem ", " 
.IR shmall ", " shmmax ", " shmmni ", " sysrq ", " tainted ", " threads-max " and "
.IR version
with function fairly clear from the name.
The files
.IR ostype ", " osrelease ", and " version
give substrings of
.IR /proc/version .
The file
.I panic
gives r/w access to the kernel variable
.IR panic_timeout .
If this is zero, the kernel will loop on a panic; if nonzero
it indicates that the kernel should autoreboot after this number
of seconds.
.RE
.TP
.I sysvipc
Subdirectory containing the psuedo-files 
.IR msg ", "  sem " and "  shm "."
These files have headers and are formatted for easier understanding.
.TP
.I tty
Subdirectory containing the psuedo-files and subdirectories for 
tty drivers and line disciplines.
.TP
.I uptime
This file contains two numbers: the uptime of the system (seconds),
and the amount of time spent in idle process (seconds).
.TP
.I version
This strings identifies the kernel version that is currently running.
For instance,
.nf
.in -2
.ft CW
Linux version 1.0.9 (quinlan@phaze) #1 Sat May 14 01:51:54 EDT 1994
.ft
.in +2
.fi

.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cat (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR free (1),
.BR mount (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR tr (1),
.BR uptime (1),
.BR chroot (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR syslog (2),
.BR slabinfo (5),
.BR hier (7),
.BR arp (8),
.BR dmesg (8),
.BR hdparm (8),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR lsmod (8),
.BR lspci (8),
.BR netstat (8),
.BR procinfo (8),
.BR route (8)
.BR /usr/src/linux/Documentation/filesystems/proc.txt
.SH "CONFORMS TO"
This roughly conforms to a Linux 2.4.17 kernel.  Please update this as
necessary!

Last updated for Linux 2.4.17.
.SH CAVEATS
Note that many strings (i.e., the environment and command line) are in
the internal format, with sub-fields terminated by NUL bytes, so you
may find that things are more readable if you use \fIod -c\fP or \fItr
"\\000" "\\n"\fP to read them.

This manual page is incomplete, possibly inaccurate, and is the kind
of thing that needs to be updated very often.
.SH BUGS
The
.I /proc
file system may introduce security holes into processes running with
.BR chroot (2).
For example, if
.I /proc
is mounted in the
.B chroot
hierarchy, a
.BR chdir (2)
to
.I /proc/1/root
will return to the original root of the file system.  This may be
considered a feature instead of a bug, since Linux does not yet support the
.BR fchroot (2)
call.

