.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:17:50 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Oct 19 21:25:21 MET 1995 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.TH TTYTYPE 5 "24 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ttytype \- terminal name and device list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ttytype
is an ASCII file that lists the names of terminals, as used in termcap,
in association with the names of the ttys (minus
.IR /dev/ )
to which they
are attached.  It is used by the program tset to set the environment
variable TERM to the correct terminal name for the user's current tty.
.SH EXAMPLE
A typical
.I /etc/ttytype
is:
.RS
.sp
con80x25 tty1
.br
vt320 ttys0
.sp
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ttytype
the tty definitions file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getty "(1), " termcap (5)
