.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:10:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH CHDIR 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
chdir \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chdir(const char *" path );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chdir
changes the current directory to that specified in
.IR path .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Depending on the file system, other errors can be returned.  The more
general errors are listed below:

.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
The effective UID does not match the owner of the file, and is not zero; or
the
.I owner
or
.I group
were specified incorrectly.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I path
contains a circular reference (i.e., via a symbolic link)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getcwd "(3), " chroot (2)
