.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 20:18:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH CHMOD 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
chmod, fchmod \- change permissions of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "int chmod(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode );
.br
.BI "int fchmod(int " fildes ", mode_t " mode );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The mode of the file given by
.I path
or referenced by
.I filedes
is changed.

Modes are specified by
.IR or'ing
the following:
.RS
.sp
.TP 1.0i
S_ISUID
04000 set user ID on execution
.TP
S_ISGID
02000 set group ID on execution
.TP
S_ISVTX
01000 sticky bit
.TP
S_IRUSR (S_IREAD)
00400 read by owner
.TP
S_IWUSR (S_IWRITE)
00200 write by owner
.TP
S_IXUSR (S_IEXEC)
00100 execute/search by owner
.TP
S_IRGRP
00040 read by group
.TP
S_IWGRP
00020 write by group
.TP
S_IXGRP
00010 execute/search by group
.TP
S_IROTH
00004 read by others
.TP
S_IWOTH
00002 write by others
.TP
S_IXOTH
00001 execute/search by others
.sp
.RE

The effective UID of the process must be zero or must match the owner of
the file.

The effective UID or GID must be appropriate for setting execution bits.

Depending on the file system, set user ID and set group ID execution bits
may be turned off if a file is written.  On some file systems, only the
super-user can set the sticky bit, which may have a special meaning (i.e.,
for directories, a file can only be deleted by the owner or the super-user).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Depending on the file system, other errors can be returned.  The more
general errors for
.B chmod
are listed below:

.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
The effective UID does not match the owner of the file, and is not zero.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I path
contains a circular reference (i.e., via a symbolic link)
.PP
The general errors for
.B fchmod
are listed below:
.TP 0.8i
.B EBADF
The descriptor is not value.
.TP
.B ENOENT
See above.
.TP
.B EPERM
See above.
.TP
.B EROFS
See above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open "(2), " chown "(2), " stat "(2) "
