.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 21:53:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH CHOWN 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
chown, fchown \- change ownership of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chown(const char *" path ", uid_t " owner ", gid_t " group );
.br
.BI "int fchown(int " fd ", uid_t " owner ", gid_t " group );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The owner of the file specified by
.I path
or by
.I fd
is changed.  Only the super-user may change the owner of a file.  The owner
of a file may change the group of the file to any group of which that owner
is a member.  The super-user may change the group arbitrarily.

If the
.I owner
or
.I group
is specified as \-1, then that ID is not changed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Depending on the file system, other errors can be returned.  The more
general errors for
.B chown
are listed below:

.TP 1.0i
.B EPERM
The effective UID does not match the owner of the file, and is not zero; or
the
.I owner
or
.I group
were specified incorrectly.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I path
contains a circular reference (i.e., via a symbolic link)
.PP
The general errors for
.B fchown
are listed below:
.TP 1.0i
.B EBADF
The descriptor is not value.
.TP
.B ENOENT
See above.
.TP
.B EPERM
See above.
.TP
.B EROFS
See above.
.SH NOTES
The prototype for
.B fchown
is only available if
.B __USE_BSD
is defined.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chmod "(2), " flock "(2)"
