.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:18:17 1993 by  Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH CHROOT 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
chroot \- change root directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chroot(const char *" path );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chroot
changes the root directory to that specified in
.IR path .  This directory will be used for path name beginning with /.
The root directory is inherited by all children of the current process.

Only the super-user may change the root directory.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Depending on the file system, other errors can be returned.  The more
general errors are listed below:

.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
The effective UID does not match the owner of the file, and is not zero; or
the
.I owner
or
.I group
were specified incorrectly.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
points outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I path
contains a circular reference (i.e., via a symbolic link)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chdir (2)
