.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:40:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH CLOSE 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
close \- close a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int close(int " fd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B close
closes a file descriptor, so that it no longer refers to any file and
may be reused.

If
.I fd
is the last copy of a particular file descriptor the resources
associated with it are freed; for example any locks held are removed
and if the descriptor was the last reference to a file which has been
removed using
.B unlink
the file is deleted.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR close
returns zero on success, or \-1 if an error occurred.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
isn't a valid open file descriptor.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open "(2), " fcntl "(2), " shutdown (2),
.BR unlink "(2), " fclose "(3).
