.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CONNECT 2 "23 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
connect \- initiate a connection on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int connect(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" serv_addr ", int
.BI " addrlen );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The parameter
.I sockfd
is a socket.
If it is of type
.BR SOCK_DGRAM ,
this call specifies the peer with which the socket is to be associated;
this address is that to which datagrams are to be sent, and the only
address from which datagrams are to be received.  If the socket is of type
.B SOCK_STREAM ,
this call attempts to make a connection to another socket.  The other
socket is specified by
.BR serv_addr ,
which is an address in the communications space of the socket.  Each
communications space interprets the
.BR serv_addr ,
parameter in its own way.  Generally, stream sockets may successfully
.B connect
only once; datagram sockets may use
.B connect
multiple times to change their association.  Datagram sockets may dissolve
the association by connecting to an invalid address, such as a null
address.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the connection or binding succeeds, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is
returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
See the Linux kernel source code for details.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B connect
function call first appeared in BSD 4.2.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR accept "(2), " bind "(2), " listen "(2), "
.BR socket "(2), " getsockname (2)
