.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\" You may distribute it under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public Licence. It comes with NO WARRANTY.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH DUP 2 "21 July 1993" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
dup, dup2 \- duplicate a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int dup(int " oldfd );
.BI "int dup2(int " oldfd ", int " newfd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dup " and " dup2
create a copy of the file descriptor
.IR oldfd .

The old and new descriptors may be used interchangeably. They share
locks, file position pointers and flags; for example, if the file
position is modified by using
.B lseek
on one of the descriptors, the position is also changed for the other.

The two descriptors do not share the close-on-exec flag, however.

.B dup
uses the lowest-numbered unused descriptor for the new descriptor.

.B dup2
.RI "makes " newfd " be the copy of " oldfd ", closing " oldfd
first if necessary.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR dup " and " dup2
return the new descriptor, or \-1 if an error occurred (in which case,
.I errno
is set appropriately).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
BADF
.I oldfd
isn't an open file descriptor, or
.I newfd
is out of the allowed range for file descriptors.
.TP
.B EMFILE
The process already has the maximum number of file
descriptors open and tried to open a new one.
.SH WARNING
The error returned by
.B dup2
is different to that returned by
.BR fcntl( ..., F_DUPFD ,... )
when
.I newfd
is out of range. On some systems
.B dup2
also sometimes returns
.B EINVAL
like
.BR F_DUPFD .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR F_DUPFD "(2), " fcntl "(2), " open "(2), " close (2).
