.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:47:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH EXECVE 2 "21 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
execve \- execute program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int execve (const char *" filename ", const char *" argv
.BI "[], const char *" envp []);
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBexecve()\fP executes the program pointed to by \fIfilename\fP.
\fIfilename\fP must be either a binary executable, or a shell script
starting with a line of the form "\fB#! \fIinterpreter \fR[arg]".

\fBexecve()\fP does not return on success, and the text, data, bss, and
stack of the calling process are overwritten by that of the program
loaded.  The program invoked inherits the calling process's PID, and any
open file descriptors that are not set to close on exec.  Signals pending
on the parent process are cleared.

If the current program is being ptraced, a \fBSIGTRAP\fP is sent to it
after a successful \fBexecve()\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, \fBexecve()\fP does not return, on error -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EACCES
The file is not a regular file.
.TP
.B EACCES
Execute permission is denied for the file.
.TP
.B EPERM
The file system is mounted
.IR noexec .
.TP
.B EPERM
The file system is mounted
.I nosuid
and the file has an SUID or SGID bit set.
.TP
E2BIG
The argument list is too big.
.TP
.B ENOEXEC
The magic number in the file is incorrect.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I filename
points outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I filename
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I filename
contains a circular reference (i.e., via a symbolic link)
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH NOTES
SUID and SGID processes can not be \fBptrace()\fP'd SUID or SGID.

A maximum line length of 127 characters is allowed for the first line in
a #! executable shell script.  This may be circumvented by changing the
max size of buf, in which case you will become bound by the 1024 byte
size of a buffer, which is not easily worked around.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR execl "(3), " fork (2)
