.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public License.
.\" See the file COPYING in the top level source directory for details.
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "GET_THREAD_AREA" 2 "2003-02-21" "Linux 2.4" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
get_thread_area \- Get a Thread Local Storage (TLS) area
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0

#include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp

#include <asm/ldt.h>
.sp
.HP 21
int\ \fBget_thread_area\fR\ (struct\ user_desc\ \fI*u_info\fR);
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
\fBget_thread_area\fR returns an entry in the current thread's Thread Local 
Storage (TLS) array. 
The index of the entry corresponds to the value 
of \fIu_info->\fR\fIentry_number\fR, passed in by the user. 
If the value is in bounds, \fBget_thread_info\fR copies the corresponding 
TLS entry into the area pointed to by \fIu_info\fR.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

.PP
\fBget_thread_area\fR returns 0 on success. 
Otherwise, it returns one of the errors listed in the "Errors" section.

.SH "ERRORS"

.TP
EINVAL
\fIu_info->\fR\fIentry_number\fR is out of bounds.

.TP
EFAULT
\fIu_info\fR is an invalid pointer.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBget_thread_area\fR is Linux specific and should not be used in programs that are intended to be portable.

.SH "VERSIONS"

.PP
A version of \fBget_thread_area\fR first appeared in Linux 2.5 in August, 2002.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBset_thread_area\fR(2), \fBmodify_ldt\fR2.

.SH "NOTES"

.PP
\fBget_thread_area\fR was written by Ingo Molnar.

.SH AUTHOR
Kent Yoder.
