.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   'gethostname' is real system call on Linux/Alpha.
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:30:53 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Jun  4 15:25:53 2000 by aeb
.\"
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 1995-07-22 "Linux 1.3.6" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
gethostname, sethostname \- get/set host name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int gethostname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int sethostname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions are used to access or to change the host name of the
current processor.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I len
is negative or, for
.BR sethostname ,
.I len
is larger than the maximum allowed size,
or, for
.BR gethostname
on Linux/i386,
.I len
is smaller than the actual size.
(In this last case glibc 2.1 uses ENAMETOOLONG.)
.TP
.B EPERM
For
.BR sethostname ,
the caller was not the superuser.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
is an invalid address.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, 4.4BSD  (this function first appeared in 4.2BSD).
POSIX.1 does not define these functions, but ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990 mentions
them in B.4.4.1.
.SH BUGS
According to the SUSv2,
.B gethostname
must return
.I len
bytes (a truncated hostname, NUL-terminated or not) when
the hostname is longer.
Linux/Alpha (which has a system call
.BR gethostname )
complies with this requirement, but libc and glibc on
Linux/i386 only return an error in this case.
.SH NOTES
The definition of success varies. SUSv2 defines \fIgethostname()\fP
as `return possibly truncated hostname', and having a small \fIlen\fP
does not cause an error return. Of course it must be possible to be
certain that one has obtained the full hostname, and to this end SUSv2
guarantees that `Host names are limited to 255 bytes'.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getdomainname (2),
.BR setdomainname (2),
.BR uname (2)
