.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified by Thomas Koengig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:51:36 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:53:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH KILL 2 "23 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
kill \- send signal to a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int kill(pid_t " pid ", int " sig );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkill()\fP
can be used to send any signal to any process group or process.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP is positive, then signal \fIsig\fP is sent to \fIpid\fP.
In this case, 0 is returned on success, or a negative value on error.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP equals \-1, then \fIsig\fP is sent to every process except
for the first one, from higher numbers in the proc table to lower.  In
this case, 0 is returned on success, or the last error condition from
\fBsend_sig()\fP is returned.
.PP
If \fIpid\fP is less than \-1, then \fIsig\fP is sent to every process
in the process group \fI\-pid\fP.  In this case, the number of processes
the signal was sent to is returned, or a negative value for failure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid signal is sent.
.TP
.B ESRCH
The pid or process group does not exist.
.TP
.B EPERM
The effective userid of the process calling 
.B kill()
is not equal to the effctive userid of    
\fIpid\fP,
unless the superuser called
\fBkill()\fP.
.SH "BUGS"
It is impossible to send a signal to task number one, the init process, for
which it has not installed a signal handler.  This is done to assure the
system is not brought down accidentally.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX.1, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR _exit "(2), " exit "(2), " signal "(2), " signal (7)
