.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\" You may distribute it under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public Licence. It comes with NO WARRANTY.
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:01:51 1993 Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH LINK 2 "23 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
link \- make a new name for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int link(const char *" oldpath ", const char *" newpath );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B link
creates a new link (also known as a hard link) to an existing file.

If
.I newpath
exists it will
.I not
be overwritten.

This new name may be used exactly as the old one for any operation;
both names refer to the same file (and so have the same permissions
and ownership) and it is impossible to tell which name was the
`original'.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EXDEV
.IR oldpath " and " newpath
are not on the same filesystem.
.TP
.B EPERM
The filesystem containing
.IR oldpath " and " newpath
does not support the creation of hard links.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR oldpath " or " newpath " points outside your accessible address space."
.TP
.B EACCES
Write access to the directory containing
.I newpath
is not allowed for the process's effective uid, or one of the
directories in
.IR oldpath " or " newpath
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR oldpath " or " newpath " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I oldpath " or " newpath
does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component used as a directory in
.IR oldpath " or " newpath
is not, in fact, a directory.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B EROFS
The file is on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B EEXIST
.I newpath
already exists.
.TP
.B EMLINK
The file referred to by
.I oldpath
already has the maximum number of links to it.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.IR oldpath " or " newpath
contains a reference to a circular symbolic link, ie a symbolic link
whose expansion contains a reference to itself.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The device containing the file has no room for the new directory
entry.
.TP
.B EPERM
.I oldpath
is the
.B . " or " ..
entry of a directory.
.SH NOTES
Hard links, as created by
.BR link ,
cannot span filesystems. Use
.B symlink
if this is required.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH BUGS
See
.BR open (2)
re multiple files with the same name, and NFS.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR symlink "(2), " unlink "(2), " rename "(2), " open (2),
.BR stat "(2), " ln "(1), " link (8).
