.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkdir.2	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:25:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH MKDIR 2 "23 July 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "int mkdir(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The directory
.I path
is created with the access permissions specified by
.I mode
and restricted by the
.BR umask (2)
of the calling process.

The directory's owner ID is set to the process's effective user ID.  The
directory's group ID is set to that of the parent directory in which it is
created.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an
entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP
.B ENOENT
A component of the path prefix does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP
.B EPERM
The
.I path
argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The named file exists.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The directory in which the entry for the new directory is being
placed cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file system
containing the directory.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The new directory cannot be created because there is no space
left on the file system that will contain the directory.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the directory
is being created.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
The directory in which the entry for the new directory is being
placed cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk blocks on the
file system containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
The new directory cannot be created because the user's quota of disk
blocks on the file system that will contain the directory has been
exhausted.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on which the directory
is being created has been exhausted.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating
the inode.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.SH "CONFORMS TO"
POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chmod "(2), " stat "(2), " umask (2)
