.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mknod.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:31:42 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH MKDIR 2 "23 July 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mknod \- make a special file node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "int mknod(const char *" path ", mode_t " mode ", dev_t " dev );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The device special file
.I path
is created with the major and minor
device numbers extracted from
.IR mode .
The access permissions of
.I path
are descendant from the
.BR umask (2)
of the parent process.

If
.I mode
indicates a block or character special file,
.I dev
is a configuration dependent specification of a character or block I/O
device and the superblock of the device.  If
.I mode
does not indicate a block special or character special device,
.I dev
is ignored.

.B Mknod
requires super-user privileges.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.Sh ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters, or an
entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP
.B ENOENT
A component of the path prefix does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP
.B EPERM
The process's effective user ID is not super-user.
.TP
.B EPERM
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating
the inode.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The directory in which the entry for the new node is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file system
containing the directory.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the node is
being created.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
The directory in which the entry for the new node is being placed
cannot be extended because the user's quota of disk blocks on the file
system containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP
.B EDQUOT
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on which the node is
being created has been exhausted.
.TP
.B EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The named file exists.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.Sh HISTORY
A
.B mknod
function call appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod "(2), " stat "(2), " umake (2)
