.\" Copyright (c) 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)mmap.2	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/5/91
.\"     @(#)munmap.2    6.1 (Berkeley) 5/27/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:38:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH MMAP 2 "23 July 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mmap, munmap \- map or unmap files or devices into memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
.BI "caddr_t mmap(caddr_t " addr ", size_t " len ", int " prot
.BI ", int " flags ", int " fd ", off_t offset );
.br
.BI "int munmap(caddr_t " addr ", size_t " len );
.Sh DESCRIPTION
WARNING: This is a BSD man page.  Linux 0.99.11 can't map files, and can't
do other things documented here.

The
.B mmap
function causes the pages starting at
.I addr
and continuing for at most
.I len
bytes to be mapped from the object described by
.IR fd ,
starting at byte offset
.IR offset .
If
.I offset
or
.I len
is not a multiple of the pagesize, the mapped region may extend past the
specified range.

If
.I addr
is non-zero, it is used as a hint to the system.  (As a convenience to the
system, the actual address of the region may differ from the address
supplied.)  If
.I addr
is zero, an address will be selected by the system.  The actual starting
address of the region is returned.  A successful
.B mmap
deletes any previous mapping in the allocated address range.

The protections (region accessibility) are specified in the
.I prot
argument by
.IR or 'ing
the following values:
.TP 0.8i
PROT_EXEC
Pages may be executed.
.TP
PROT_READ
Pages may be read.
.TP
PROT_WRITE
Pages may be written.

The
.I flags
parameter specifies the type of the mapped object, mapping options and
whether modifications made to the mapped copy of the page are private to
the process or are to be shared with other references.  Sharing, mapping
type and options are specified in the
.I flags
argument by
.IR or ;ing
the following values:
.TP 0.8i
MAP_ANON
Map anonymous memory not associated with any specific file.  The
file descriptor used for creating MAP_ANON regions is used only for naming,
and may be specified as \-1 if no name is associated with the region.
.TP
MAP_FILE
Mapped from a regular file or character-special device memory.
.TP
MAP_FIXED
Do not permit the system to select a different address than the
one specified.  If the specified address cannot be used,
.B mmap
will fail.  If MAP_FIXED is specified,
.I addr
must be a multiple of the pagesize.  Use of this option is discouraged.
.TP
MAP_HASSEMAPHORE
Notify the kernel that the region may contain semaphores and that special
handling may be necessary.
.TP
MAP_INHERIT
Permit regions to be inherited across
.BR exec (2)
system calls.
.TP
MAP_PRIVATE
Modifications are private.
.TP
MAP_SHARED
Modifications are shared.

The
.B munmap
system call deletes the mappings for the specified address range, and
causes further references to addresses within the range to generate invalid
memory references.

The current design does not allow a process to specify the location of swap
space.  In the future we may define an additional mapping type,
.BR MAP_SWAP ,
in which the file descriptor argument specifies a file or device to which
swapping should be done.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion,
.B mmap
returns a pointer to the mapped region.  Otherwise, a value of \-1 is
returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
For
.B mmap:
.TP 0.8i
.B EACCES
The flag PROT_READ was specified as part of the
.I prot
parameter and
.I fd
was not open for reading.  The flags
.BR PROT_WRITE ", " MAP_SHARED " and " MAP_WRITE
were specified as part of the
.I flags
and
.I prot
parameters and
.I fd
was not open for writing.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I Fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
One of
.B MAP_ANON
or
.B MAP_FILE
was not specified as part of the
.I flags
parameter.
.B MAP_FIXED
was specified and the
.I addr
parameter was not page aligned.
.Fa Fd
did not reference a regular or character special file.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.B MAP_FIXED
was specified and the
.I addr
parameter wasn't available.
.B MAP_ANON was specified an insufficient memory was available.
.SH BUGS
This is a BSD man page.  Many of the details explained here are
.I not
implemented under Linux.  Please consult the Linux kernel source code for
complete details on the current implementation of the
.B mmap
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getpagesize "(2), " phys (2)
