.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:06:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH READ 2 "23 July 1993" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
read \- read from a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int read(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " count );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B read
reads up to
.I count
bytes from file descriptor
.I fd
into the buffer starting at
.I buf.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, the number of bytes read are returned (zero indicates end of
file).  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EINTR
The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was read.
.TP
.B EAGAIN 
Non-blocking I/O has been selected using
.B O_NONBLOCK
and no data was immediately available for reading.
.TP
.B EISDIR
.I fd
refers to a directory.
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for reading.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
is attached to an object which is unsuitable for reading.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
is outside your accessible address space.
.PP
Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to
.IR fd .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR readdir "(2), " write "(2), " write "(2), " fcntl "(2), " close "(2), "
.BR lseek "(2), "
.BR select "(2), " readlink "(2), " ioctl "(2), " fread (3).
