.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\" You may distribute it under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public Licence. It comes with NO WARRANTY.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:39:47 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH RMDIR 2 "24 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.7" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
rmdir \- delete a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int rmdir(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmdir
deletes a directory, which must be empty.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
The filesystem containing
.IR pathname
does not support the removal of directories.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR pathname " points outside your accessible address space."
.TP
.B EACCES
Write access to the directory containing
.I pathname
was not allowed for the process's effective uid, or one of the
directories in
.IR pathname
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.B EPERM
The directory containing
.I pathname
has the sticky-bit
.RB ( S_ISVTX )
set and the process's effective uid is neither the uid of the file to
be deleted nor that of the directory containing it.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR pathname " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I pathname
does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.IR pathname ,
or a component used as a directory in
.IR pathname ,
is not, in fact, a directory.
.TP
.B ENOTEMPTY
.I pathname
contains entries other than
.BR . " and " .. " ."
.TP
.B EBUSY
.I pathname
is the current working directory or root directory of some process.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I pathname
refers to a file on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I pathname
contains a reference to a circular symbolic link, ie a symbolic link
containing a reference to itself.
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH BUGS
Infelicities in the protocol underlying NFS can cause the unexpected
disappearance of directories which are still being used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rename "(2), " mkdir "(2), " chdir "(2), " unlink (2),
.BR rmdir "(1), " rm (1)
