.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:41:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH SELECT 2 "April 14, 1993" "Linux 0.99.7" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
select \- synchronous I/O multiplexing 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int select(int " numfds ", fd_set *" readfds ", fd_set *"  writefds
.BI ", fd_set *" exceptfds ", struct timeval * " timeout );
.sp
.BI "FD_CLR(int " fd ", fd_set *" set );
.br
.BI "FD_ISSET(int " fd ", fd_set *" set );
.br
.BI "FD_SET(int " fd ", fd_set *" set );
.br
.BI "FD_ZERO(fd_set * " set );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Select 
causes the calling process to sleep until a file descriptor in 
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
or
.I exceptfds
becomes available for reading, writing, or has 
an exception raised respectively, or until the time limit set 
by 
.I timeout
has elapsed.

On exit, 
.B select
indicates file descriptors that have become available by modifying
.IR readfds ,
.IR writefds ,
and
.I exceptfds 
in place.  
.I Timeout
is also updated to reflect the amount of time remaining.

Several macros are provided for manipulating file descriptor sets.
.B FD_SET 
and
.B FD_CLR
add and remove
.I fd
to/from 
.I set, 
.B FD_ZERO
clears 
.I set,
and 
.B FD_ISSET 
returns nonzero 
.I fd
is in 
.I set.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success,
.B select 
returns the number of descriptors contained in the descriptor sets.  On
error, \-1  is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EBADF
An invalid file descriptor was given in one of the sets.
.TP
.B EINTR 
A non blocked signal was caught.
.TP
.B EINVAL 
.I nd
is negative.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
select was unable to allocate memory for internal tables.
.SH NOTES
The Linux behavior with respect to 
.I timeout
differs from other unices that don't modify it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR accept "(2), " connect "(2), " read "(2), " recv "(2), "
.BR send "(2), " write (2)
