.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" This file is distributed according to the GNU General Public License.
.\" See the file COPYING in the top level source directory for details.
.\"
.de Sh \" Subsection
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip \" List item
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH "SET_THREAD_AREA" 2 "2003-02-21" "Linux 2.4" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
set_thread_area \- Set a Thread Local Storage (TLS) area
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.ad l
.hy 0

#include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp

#include <asm/ldt.h>
.sp
.HP 21
int\ \fBset_thread_area\fR\ (struct\ user_desc\ \fI*u_info\fR);
.ad
.hy

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
\fBset_thread_area\fR sets an entry in the current thread's Thread 
Local Storage (TLS) array. 
The TLS array entry set by \fBset_thread_area\fR corresponds to the 
value of \fIu_info->\fR\fIentry_number\fR passed in by the user. 
If this value is in bounds, \fIset_thread_area\fR copies the TLS 
descriptor pointed to by \fIu_info\fR into the thread's TLS array.

.PP
When \fBset_thread_area\fR is passed an \fIentry_number\fR of -1, 
it uses a free TLS entry. 
If \fBset_thread_area\fR finds a free TLS entry, the value of 
\fIu_info->\fR\fIentry_number\fR is set upon return to show which 
entry was changed.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

.PP
\fBset_thread_area\fR returns 0 on success. 
Otherwise, it returns one of the errors listed in the "Errors" section.

.SH "ERRORS"

.TP
EINVAL
\fIu_info->\fR\fIentry_number\fR is out of bounds.

.TP
EFAULT
\fIu_info\fR is an invalid pointer.

.TP
ESRCH
A free TLS entry could not be located.

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

.PP
\fBset_thread_area\fR is Linux specific and should not be used in programs that are intended to be portable.

.SH "VERSIONS"

.PP
A version of \fBset_thread_area\fR first appeared in Linux 2.5 in August, 2002.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBget_thread_area\fR(2).

.SH "NOTES"

.PP
\fBset_thread_area\fR was written by Ingo Molnar.

.SH AUTHOR
Kent Yoder.
