.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)setregid.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:08:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/kernel/sys.c:
.\"             Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"             May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" 
.\"
.TH SETREGID 2 "24 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
setregid \- set real and effective group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setregid(gid_t rgid ", gid_t " egid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The real and effective group ID's of the current process are set to the
arguments.  Unprivileged users may change the real group ID to the
effective group ID and vice-versa; only the super-user may make other
changes.

Supplying a value of \-1 for either the real or effective group ID forces
the system to substitute the current ID in place of the \-1 parameter.
.SH "NOTES FROM KERNEL SOURCE"
.B setregid
is done BSD-style, with no consideration of the saved gid, except
that if you set the effective gid, it sets the saved gid too.  This 
makes it possible for a setgid program to completely drop its privileges,
which is often a useful assertion to make when you are doing a security
audit over a program.

The general idea is that a program which uses just
.B setregid
will be 100% compatible with BSD.  A program which uses just
.B setgid
will be 100% compatible with POSIX w/ Saved ID's. 
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.TP
.B EPERM
The current process is not the super-user and a change other than
changing the effective group-id to the real group-id was specified.
.SH HISTORY
The
.B setregid
function call appeared in BSD 4.2.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR getgid "(2), " setgid (2)
