.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH SETUP 2 "March 28, 1992" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
setup \- initialize the ST506 hd driver drive and partition parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/sys.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/config.h>
.sp
.BI "void setup(void *" BIOS );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B setup
may be called once from within
.IR linux/init/main.c .
Its purpose is to initialize the  
.B hd_info[] 
table for the hard disk driver.  If 
.B HD_TYPE 
is defined, from within
.IR linux/include/linux/config.h ,
the value provided by 
.I BIOS
is overridden.  Otherwise, The structure pointed to by
.I BIOS  
is assumed to be a one or two element array of 
.B  hd_i_struct 
structures defined as follows (in 
.IR linux/kernel/blk_drv/hd.c ):

.RS
.nf
struct hd_i_struct {
        unsigned int head,sect,cyl,wpcom,lzone,ctl;
};
.fi
.RE

Normal, and extended partitions are detected.  Disk manager partitions are
accounted for as well.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
This function is Linux specific.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hd (4)
