.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:23:36 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SIGNAL 2 "24 July 1993" "Obsolete Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
signal, sigaction, sigsuspend, sigpending, sgetmask, ssetmask \- signal handling functions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int sigaction(int " signum ", const struct sigaction *" new ","
.BI "struct sigaction *" old );
.sp
.BI "void (*signal(int " signum ", (void *" handler ")(int))))(int);
.sp
.BI "sigsuspend(int " restart ", sigset_t " old_mask ", sigset_t " set );
.sp
.BI "int sigpending(sigset_t *" buf );
.sp
.B sigset_t sgetmask(void);
.sp
.BI "sigset_t ssetmask(sigset_t " mask );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B WARNING:
This man page is very old.

.B sgetmask
and 
.B ssetmask
get and set the mask of blocked signals.  Signals are bitmapped into this
mask as 1 << (signum \- 1).  Both return the old value of the mask.  Note
that
.B SIGKILL 
and 
.B SIGSTOP
cannot be blocked.

.B sigpending
fills in 
.I buf
with which signals are pending but blocked. 0 is returned.

.B sigsuspend
is used to atomically swap out the signal mask, while waiting for a
signal.  If the
.I restart
flag is set, then the current mask is replaced with 
old_mask, and sigsuspend exists with a 
.BR EINTR .
Otherwise, the current signal mask is set to set, a 
.B pause
system call performed, and 
.B ERESTARTNOINTR
is returned.

.B signal
is used to set up a signal handler for 
.IR signum .
The signal handler is set to 
.IR handler ,
which may be a user specified function or one of these from
.IR signal.h :
.TP 1.0i
SIG_DFL     
use the default handler.
.TP
SIG_IGN
ignore signal.  
.PP
Note that 
.B signal
sets up signals to be SA_ONESHOT and SA_NOMASK.  This may be changed by a
call to
.BR sigaction .

Also note that
.BR SIG_KILL " and " SIG_STOP
cannot be changed.

The address of the handler is returned on success, a negative value on error.

.B sigaction
is similar to a more general version of 
.BR signal .
It can be used to  set the entire 
.B sigaction 
structure for a signal.  

If 
.I old
is non null, the old action will be stored there.  The action will then be
set to
.I new.

The 
.BB sigaction 
structure is as defined in <signal.h>:
.br
.nf
struct sigaction {
.in 24
void (*sa_handler)(int);
sigset_t sa_mask;
int sa_flags;
void (*sa_restorer)(void);
};
.in 10
.fi
.PP
0 is returned on success.  Note that 
.B SIGKILL 
and 
.B SIGSTOP
may not have signals set for them.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EINVAL
An invalid
.I signum
is passed to the functions.
.SH BUGS
Signals have changed quite a bit in the Linux kernel since this man page
was written.  It is probably obsolete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill "(2), " raise (3)
