.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" Parts Copyright (c) 1995 Nicolai Langfeldt (janl@ifi.uio.no), 1/1/95
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:54:27 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu May 18 11:00:31 1995 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\"          to add comments suggested by Todd Larason <jtl@molehill.org>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 17:43:02 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Thu Jan 9 10:20:31 1995 by Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\"          to add more error codes suggested by Richard Kettlewell (richard@greenend.org.uk)
.\" Modified Wed May 13 18:46:44 1998 by Michael Haardt <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" 
.TH STAT 2 "May 13, 1998" "Linux" "System calls"
.SH NAME
stat, fstat, lstat \- get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int stat(const char *" file_name ", struct stat *" buf );
.br
.BI "int fstat(int " filedes ", struct stat *" buf );
.br
.BI "int lstat(const char *" file_name ", struct stat *" buf );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions return information about the specified file.  You do
not need any access rights to the file to get this information but you
need search rights to all directories named in the path leading to the
file.
.PP
.B stat
stats the file pointed to by 
.I file_name
and fills in
.IR buf .

.B lstat
is identical to
.BR stat ,
only the link itself is stated, not the file that is obtained by tracing
the links.

.B fstat
is identical to stat, only the open file pointed to by 
.I filedes
(as returned by
.IR open (2))
is stated in place of 
.IR file_name .

.PP
They all return a
.I stat
structure, which contains the following fields:
.PP
.RS
.nf
struct stat
{
    dev_t         st_dev;      /* device */
    ino_t         st_ino;      /* inode */
    mode_t        st_mode;     /* protection */
    nlink_t       st_nlink;    /* number of hard links */
    uid_t         st_uid;      /* user ID of owner */
    gid_t         st_gid;      /* group ID of owner */
    dev_t         st_rdev;     /* device type (if inode device) */
    off_t         st_size;     /* total size, in bytes */
    unsigned long st_blksize;  /* blocksize for filesystem I/O */
    unsigned long st_blocks;   /* number of blocks allocated */
    time_t        st_atime;    /* time of last access */
    time_t        st_mtime;    /* time of last modification */
    time_t        st_ctime;    /* time of last change */
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
Note that
.I st_blocks
may not always be in terms of blocks of size
.IR st_blksize ,
and that
.I st_blksize
may instead provide a notion of the "preferred" blocksize for efficient
file system I/O.
.PP
Not all of the Linux filesystems implement all of the time fields.
Traditionally,
.I st_atime
is changed by
.BR mknod "(2), " utime "(2), " read "(2), " write "(2), and " truncate (2).

Traditionally,
.I st_mtime
is changed by
.BR mknod "(2), " utime "(2), and " write (2).
The
.I st_mtime
is
.I not
changed for changes in owner, group, hard link count, or mode.

Traditionally,
.I st_ctime
is changed by writing or by setting inode information (i.e., owner, group,
link count, mode, etc.).
.PP
The following POSIX macros are defined to check the file type:
.RS
.TP 1.2i
S_ISLNK(m)
is it a symbolic link?
.TP
S_ISREG(m)
regular file?
.TP
S_ISDIR(m)
directory?
.TP
S_ISCHR(m)
character device?
.TP
S_ISBLK(m)
block device?
.TP
S_ISFIFO(m)
fifo?
.TP
S_ISSOCK(m)
socket?
.RE
.PP
The following flags are defined for the
.I st_mode
field:
.RS
.TP 0.9i
S_IFMT
00170000 bitmask for the file type bitfields (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFSOCK
0140000 socket (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFLNK
0120000 symbolic link (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFREG
0100000 regular file (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFBLK
0060000 block device (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFDIR
0040000 directory (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFCHR
0020000 character device (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IFIFO
0010000 fifo (not POSIX)
.TP
S_ISUID
0004000 set UID bit
.TP
S_ISGID
0002000 set GID bit
.TP
S_ISVTX
0001000 sticky bit (not POSIX)
.TP
S_IRWXU
00700 user (file owner) has read, write and execute permission
.TP
S_IRUSR
00400 user has read permission (same as S_IREAD, which is not POSIX)
.TP
S_IWUSR
00200 user has write permission (same as S_IWRITE, which is not POSIX)
.TP
S_IXUSR
00100 user has execute permission (same as S_IEXEC, which is not POSIX)
.TP
S_IRWXG
00070 group has read, write and execute permission
.TP
S_IRGRP
00040 group has read permission
.TP
S_IWGRP
00020 group has write permission
.TP
S_IXGRP
00010 group has execute permission
.TP
S_IRWXO
00007 others have read, write and execute permission
.TP
S_IROTH
00004 others have read permission
.TP
S_IWOTH
00002 others have write permisson
.TP
S_IXOTH
00001 others have execute permission
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I filedes
is bad.
.TP
.B ENOENT
A component of the path
.I file_name
does not exist, or the path is an empty string.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path is not a directory.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links encountered while traversing the path.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Bad address.
.TP
.B EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Out of memory (i.e. kernel memory).
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
File name too long.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
The
.B stat
and
.B fstat
calls conform to SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3.  The
.B lstat
call conforms to 4.3BSD and SVr4.
SVr4 documents additional
.B fstat
error conditions EINTR, ENOLINK, and EOVERFLOW.  SVr4
documents additional
.B stat
and
.B lstat
error conditions EACCES, EINTR, EMULTIHOP, ENOLINK, and EOVERFLOW.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chmod (2),
.BR chown (2),
.BR readlink (2),
.B utime (2)
