.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\" You may distribute it under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public Licence. It comes with NO WARRANTY.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:01:10 1993 by Rik Faith
.\"
.TH SYMLINK 2 "24 July 1993" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
symlink \- make a new name for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int symlink(const char *" oldpath ", const char *" newpath );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B symlink
creates a symbolic link named
.I oldpath
which contains
.IR newpath .

Symbolic links are interpreted at run-time, as if the contents of the
link were substituted into the path being followed to find a file or
directory.

Symbolic links may contain
.B ..
path components, which (if used at the start of the link) refer to the
parent directories of that in which the link resides.

A symbolic link (also known as a soft link) may point to an existing
file or to a nonexistent one; the latter case is known as a dangling
link.

The permissions of a symbolic link are irrelevant; the ownership is
ignored when following the link, but is checked when removal or
renaming of the link is requested and the link is in a directory with
the sticky bit set.

If
.I newpath
exists it will
.I not
be overwritten.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EPERM
The filesystem containing
.IR pathname
does not support the creation of symbolic links.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR oldpath " or " newpath " points outside your accessible address space."
.TP
.B EACCES
Write access to the directory containing
.I newpath
is not allowed for the process's effective uid, or one of the
directories in
.IR newpath
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR oldpath " or " newpath " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I newpath
does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link, or
.I oldpath
is the empty string.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component used as a directory in
.IR newpath
is not, in fact, a directory.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B EROFS
The file is on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B EEXIST
.I newpath
already exists.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.IR newpath
contains a reference to a circular symbolic link, ie a symbolic link
whose expansion contains a reference to itself.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The device containing the file has no room for the new directory
entry.
.SH NOTES
No checking of
.I oldpath
is done.

Deleting the name referred to by a symlink will actually delete the
file (unless it also has other hard links). If this behaviour is not
desired, use
.BR link .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH BUGS
See
.BR open (2)
re multiple files with the same name, and NFS.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR link "(2), " unlink "(2), " rename "(2), " open (2),
.BR lstat "(2), " ln "(1), " link (8).
