.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Updated names and version numbers to Linux 1.2.4 / man-pages-1.6.
.\"   Moved unimplemented kernel calls to new man page.
.\"   Created new man page for obsolete calls, so don't talk about them here.
.\"   Removed BUGS as they've been fixed.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Updated for Linux 1.3.6 / man-pages-1.7.
.\" "
.TH UNDOCUMENTED 2 "22 July 1995" "Linux 1.3.6" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
personality, setfsgid, setfsuid, siggetmask, sigreturn, sigsetmask, sysfs
\- undocumented system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
Undocumented system calls.
.SH DESCRIPTION
As of Linux 1.3.6, there are 144 system calls listed in
.IR /usr/include/linux/unistd.h .
This man page mentions those calls which are implemented in the kernel
but not yet documented in man pages.
Some of these calls do not have prototypes in the DLL 4.6.27 include files.
.SH SOLICITATION
If you have information about these system calls,
please look in the kernel source code, write a man page (using a style
similar to that of the other Linux section 2 man pages), and send it to
.B aeb@cwi.nl
for inclusion in the next man page release from the Linux Documentation
Project.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR obsolete "(2), " unimplemented "(2)"
