.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH UTIME 2 "24 July 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
utime, utimes \- change access and/or modification times of an inode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" filename ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B utime
changes the access and modification times of the inode specified by
.I filename
to the
.IR actime " and " modtime
fields of 
.I buf
respectively.  If
.I buf
is
.BR NULL ,
then the access and modification times of the file are set to the current
time.  The
.I utimbuf
structure is:

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* access time */
        time_t modtime; /* modification time */
};
.fi
.RE

In the Linux DLL 4.4.1 libraries,
.B utimes
is just a wrapper for
.BR utime :
.IR tvp [0]. tv_sec
is
.IR actime ,
and
.IR tvp [1]. tv_sec
is
.IR modtime .
The
.I timeval
structure is:

.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* seconds */
        long    tv_usec;        /* microseconds */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Other errors may occur.

.TP 0.8i
.B EACCESS
Permission to write the file is denied.
.B ENOENT
.I filename
does not exist.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.BR utime :
SVID, POSIX
.br
.BR utimes :
BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat (2)
