.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:35:59 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 28 17:19:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" "
.TH WRITE 2 "28 November 1993" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
write \- write to a file descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t write(int " fd ", const char *" buf ", size_t " count );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B write
writes up to
.I count
bytes from file descriptor
.I fd
from the buffer starting at
.I buf.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, the number of bytes written are returned (zero indicates end of
file).  On error, \-1 (or MAXINT, as size_t is unsigned) is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.8i
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for writing.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fd
is attached to an object which is unsuitable for writing.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
is outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.B EPIPE
.I fd
is connected to a pipe or socket whose reading end is closed. When
this happens the writing process will receive a
.B SIGPIPE
signal; if it catches, blocks or ignores this the error
.B EPIPE
is returned.
.TP
.B EAGAIN 
Non-blocking I/O has been selected using
.B O_NONBLOCK
and there was no room in the pipe or socket connected to
.I fd
to write the data immediately.
.TP
.B EINTR
The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was written.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The device containing the file referred to by
.I fd
has no room for the data.

Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to
.IR fd .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open "(2), " read "(2), " fcntl "(2), " close (2),
.BR lseek "(2), "
.BR select "(2), " ioctl "(2), " fwrite (3).
