.\" t
.\" Copyright 1993-1994 Daniel Quinlan (quinlan@yggdrasil.com)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH ISO_8859-1 7 "11 May 1994" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
iso_8859_1 \- map of character set

.SH SYNOPSIS
Characters specified according to the
.I ISO 8859 Latin-1
encoding for European languages.

.SH DESCRIPTION
ISO 8859 includes several 8-bit ASCII extensions. Especially
.I ISO 8859-1,
the "Latin alphabet No. 1", which has become widely implemented and
may already be seen as the de-facto standard ASCII replacement.  The
full set of ISO 8859 alphabets includes:

.TS
tab(@);
l l.
ISO 8859-1@west European languages (Latin-1)
ISO 8859-2@east European languages (Latin-2)
ISO 8859-3@other Latin languages (Latin-3)
ISO 8859-4@north European languages (Latin-4)
ISO 8859-5@Latin/Cyrillic
ISO 8859-6@Latin/Arabic
ISO 8859-7@Latin/Greek
ISO 8859-8@Latin/Hebrew
ISO 8859-9@Latin-1 modification for Turkey (Latin-5)
ISO 8859-10@Baltic countries (under preparation)
.TE

.LP
.I "ISO 8859 Latin-1 Character Set"

The following table displays the
.I ISO 8859 Latin-1
character set.

The first field is the octal code for the character, the second is the
name (patterned after the GNU Emacs naming scheme in the iso-insert.el
library), the third is the equivalent TeX command, and the fourth is
the character itself (as best your system can display it).

.TS
tab(@);
l l l l.
Octal@Description@TeX@Character
_
240@no-break-space@@ 
241@inverted-exclamation-mark@!`@¡
242@cent-sign@@¢
243@pound-sign@\\pounds@£
244@general-currency-sign@@¤
245@yen-sign@@¥
246@broken-vertical-line@@¦
247@section-sign@\\S@§
250@diaeresis@@¨
251@copyright-sign@\\copyright@©
252@ordinal-indicator-feminine@@ª
253@angle-quotation-mark-left@@«
254@not-sign@\\neg@¬
255@soft-hyphen@@­
256@registered-sign@@®
257@macron@@¯
260@degree-sign@@°
261@plus-or-minus-sign@\\pm@±
262@superscript-two@@²
263@superscript-three@@³
264@acute-accent@\\'@´
265@micro-sign@\\mu@µ
266@pilcrow@\\P@¶
267@middle-dot@\\cdot@·
270@cedilla@\\c@¸
271@superscript-one@@¹
272@ordinal-indicator-masculine@@º
273@angle-quotation-mark-right@@»
274@fraction-one-quarter@@¼
275@fraction-one-half@@½
276@fraction-three-quarters@@¾
277@inverted-question-mark@?`@¿
300@A-grave@\\`{A}@À
301@A-acute@\\'{A}@Á
302@A-circumflex@\\^{A}@Â
303@A-tilde@\\~{A}@Ã
304@A-umlaut@\\"{A}@Ä
305@A-ring@\\AA@Å
306@AE@\\AE@Æ
307@C-cedilla@\\c{C}@Ç
310@E-grave@\\`{E}@È
311@E-acute@\\'{E}@É
312@E-circumflex@\\^{E}@Ê
313@E-umlaut@\\"{E}@Ë
314@I-grave@\\`{I}@Ì
315@I-acute@\\'{I}@Í
316@I-circumflex@\\^{I}@Î
317@I-umlaut@\\"{I}@Ï
320@D-stroke@@Ð
321@N-tilde@\\~{N}@Ñ
322@O-grave@\\`{O}@Ò
323@O-acute@\\'{O}@Ó
324@O-circumflex@\\^{O}@Ô
325@O-tilde@\\~{O}@Õ
326@O-umlaut@\\"{O}@Ö
327@multiplication-sign@\\times@×
330@O-slash@@Ø
331@U-grave@\\`{U}@Ù
332@U-acute@\\'{U}@Ú
333@U-circumflex@\\^{U}@Û
334@U-umlaut@\\"{U}@Ü
335@Y-acute@\\'{Y}@Ý
336@THORN@@Þ
337@ss@\\ss@ß
340@a-grave@\\`{a}@à
341@a-acute@\\'{a}@á
342@a-circumflex@\\^{a}@â
343@a-tilde@\\~{a}@ã
344@a-umlaut@\\"{a}@ä
345@a-ring@\\.{a}@å
346@ae@\\ae@æ
347@c-cedilla@\\c{c}@ç
350@e-grave@\\`{e}@è
351@e-acute@\\'{e}@é
352@e-circumflex@\\^{e}@ê
353@e-umlaut@\\"{e}@ë
354@i-grave@\\`{i}@ì
355@i-acute@\\'{i}@í
356@i-circumflex@\\^{i}@î
357@i-umlaut@\\"{i}@ï
360@d-stroke@@ð
361@n-tilde@\\~{n}@ñ
362@o-grave@\\`{o}@ò
363@o-acute@\\'{o}@ó
364@o-circumflex@\\^{o}@ô
365@o-tilde@\\~{o}@õ
366@o-umlaut@\\"{o}@ö
367@division-sign@\\div@÷
370@o-slash@@ø
371@u-grave@\\`{u}@ù
372@u-acute@\\'{u}@ú
373@u-circumflex@\\^{u}@û
374@u-umlaut@\\"{u}@ü
375@y-acute@\\'{y}@ý
376@thorn@@þ
377@y-umlaut@\\"{y}@ÿ
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ascii (7)
