.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (C) 2000 Stein Gjoen

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in
the original English.
..
.TH "LDP Introduction" "ldp" "March 5, 2000" "LDP"
.SH "NAME"
.'
LDP \- Intro to the Linux Documentation Project, with help, guides and documents
.'
.'
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.'
The Linux Documentation Project (LDP) provides a variety of
free documentation resources including
guides, FAQs, HOWTOs, and man-pages to the Linux community.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.'
.'
The various documents in the LDP archives are maintained by individual
authors, and are listed in the beginning of each HOWTO. If you have
any questions or inputs to a document we encourage you to contact the
authors directly.

.SH "WEB PAGES"
.'
.'
The LDP has its own dedicated web site as do many of
the various translations projects which are linked from the
main LDP web site at
.'
.RS
\fBhttp://www\&.LinuxDoc\&.org/\fP
.RE
which you may wish to bookmark.

.SH "MAILING LISTS"
.'
.'
LDP has a number of mailing lists, mostly of use to authors:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.PD
\fB<ldp\-announce@lists\&.LinuxDoc\&.org>\fP
Announcements from the LDP project
.TP
\fB<ldp\-discuss@lists\&.LinuxDoc\&.org>\fP
General discussion on the LDP project
.PP
To join these lists send a mail with a body of "subscribe"
to \fB<ldp\-announce\-request@lists\&.LinuxDoc\&.org>\fP
or \fB<ldp\-discuss\-request@lists\&.LinuxDoc\&.org>\fP
respectively. These mailing lists are also archived at the
LinuxDoc site.

.SH "FILES"
.'
.'
Most distributions include the HOWTOs and mini-HOWTOs in the installation
.PD 0
.TP
\fB/usr/doc/\fP             (most documentation is here)
.TP
\fB/usr/share/doc/\fP       (possibly some documentation here)
.TP
\fB/usr/doc/HOWTO/\fP       (HOWTO files)
.TP
\fB/usr/doc/HOWTO/mini/\fP  (mini-HOWTO files)
.TP
\fB/usr/share/doc/HOWTO/\fP (used by some recent distributions)
.PD
.'
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.'
.BR man (1),
.BR xman (1x),
.BR info (1)
.PP
\fBinfo\fP pages as read with
.BR emacs (1)
or
.BR info (1).
