'\" t
.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:34:08 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jan  7 01:41:27 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH SIGNAL 7  "April 24, 1993" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
signal \- list of available signals
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux supports the following signals:
.sp
.PP
.TS
l | l | l | l
_ | _ | _ | _
lB | r | l | l .
Signal name	Value	Action	Comment
SIGHUP	1	A	Hangup detected
SIGINT	2	A	Interrupt from keyboard
SIGQUIT	3	A	Quit from keyboard
SIGILL	4	A	Illegal Instruction
SIGTRAP	5	CG	Trace/breakpoint trap
SIGABRT	6	C	Abort
SIGUNUSED	7	AG	Unused signal
SIGFPE	8	C	Floating point exception
SIGKILL	9	AEF	Termination signal
SIGUSR1	10	A	User\-defined signal 1
SIGSEGV	11	C	Invalid memory reference
SIGUSR2	12	A	User\-defined signal 2
SIGPIPE	13	A	Write to pipe with no readers
SIGALRM	14	A	Timer signal from alarm(1).
SIGTERM	15	A	Termination signal
SIGSTKFLT	16	AG	Stack fault on coprocessor
SIGCHLD	17	B	Child terminated
SIGCONT	18		Continue if stopped
SIGSTOP	19	DEF	Stop process
SIGTSTP	20	D	Stop typed at tty
SIGTTIN	21	D	tty input for background process
SIGTTOU	22	D	tty output for background process
SIGIO	23	AG	I/O error
SIGXCPU	24	AG	CPU time limit exceeded
SIGXFSZ	25	AG	File size limit exceeded
SIGVTALRM	26	AG	Virtual time alarm (???)
SIGPROF	27	AG	Profile signal
SIGWINCH	29	BG	Window resize signal
.TE
.PP
The letters in the "Action" column have the following meanings:
.IP A
Default action is to terminate the process.
.IP B
Default action is to ignore the signal.
.IP C
Default action is to dump core.
.IP D
Default action is to stop the process.
.IP E
Signal cannot be caught.
.IP F
Signal cannot be ignored.
.IP G
Not a POSIX.1 conformant signal.
.SH "CONFORMS TO"
POSIX.1
.SH BUGS
A
.B SIGBUS
is missing; this is because the 386 hardware does not generate such a
signal, but makes porting from other architectures unnecessarily
difficult.
