.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:42:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:44:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH ASSERT 3  1993-04-04 "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
assert \- Abort the program if assertion is false.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <assert.h>
.sp
.BI "void assert (int " "expression" ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B assert()
prints an error message to standard output and terminates the program
by calling
.B abort()
if
.B expression
is false (i.e., compares equal to zero).  This only happens when the macro
.B NDEBUG
was undefined when
.B <assert.h>
was last included.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
No value is returned.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
ISO9899 (ANSI C).  In the 1990 standard,
.B expression
is required to be of type
.B int
and undefined behavior results if it is not, but in the 1999 standard
it may have any scalar type.
.\" See Defect Report 107 for more details.
.SH "BUGS"
.B assert()
is implemented as a macro; if the expression tested has side - effects,
program behaviour will be different depending on whether
.B NDEBUG
is defined. This may create Heisenbugs which go away when debugging is turned on.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exit "(3), " abort (3)
