.\" Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-applied-psychology.cambridge.ac.uk>
.TH CATGETS 3 "29 November 1993"
.SH NAME
catgets \- get message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <features.h>
.br
#include <nl_types.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
char *catgets(catalog, set_number, message_number, message)
nl_catd catalog;
int set_number;
int message_number;
char *message;
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "catgets" "" "\fLcatgets\fR \(em read a program message" ""
.LP
.B catgets(\|)
reads the message
.IR message_number ,
in set
.IR set_number ,
from the message catalog identified by
.IR catalog .
.I catalog
is a catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call to
.BR catopen (3).
The fourth argument
.I message
points to a default message string which will be returned by
.B catgets(\|)
if the identified message catalog is not currently open, or damaged. The
message-text is contained in an internal buffer area and should be copied by
the application if it is to be saved or modified. The return string is
always terminated with a null byte.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On success,
.B catgets(\|)
returns a pointer
to an internal buffer area containing the null-terminated message string.
.B catgets(\|)
returns a pointer to
.I message
if it fails because the message catalog specified by
.I catalog
is not currently open. Otherwise,
.B catgets(\|)
returns a pointer to an empty string if the message catalog is available but
does not contain the specified message.
.SH NOTES
These functions are only available in libc.so.4.4.4c and above.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR catopen (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
