.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:23:14 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Oct 18 17:31:43 1998 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.TH FTIME 3 1993-07-24 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ftime \- return date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <sys/timeb.h>"
.sp
.BI "int ftime(struct timeb *" tp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Return current date and time in
.IR tp ,
which is declared as following:
.sp
.in +1i
.nf
struct timeb {
	time_t   time;
	unsigned short millitm;
	short    timezone;
	short    dstflag;
};
.fi
.in -1i
.LP
The structure contains the time since the epoch in seconds, up to 1000
milliseconds of more-precise interval, the local time zone (measured in
minutes of time westward from Greenwich), and a flag that, if nonzero,
indicates that Daylight Saving time applies locally during the
appropriate part of the year.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function always returns 0.
.SH BUGS
Under libc4 and libc5 the millitm field is meaningful.
But glibc2 is buggy and returns 0 there;
glibc 2.1.1 is correct again.
.SH HISTORY
The
.I ftime
function appeared in 4.2BSD.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
BSD 4.2
.SH NOTE
This call is obsoleted by
.BR gettimeofday (2).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR time (2)
