.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:48:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH GETNETENT 3  "May 15, 1993" "BSD" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getnetent, getnetbyname, getnetbyaddr, setnetent, endnetent \-
get network entry 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct netent *getnetent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyname(const char *" name );
.sp
.BI "struct netent *getnetbyaddr(long " net ", int " type );
.sp
.BI "void setnetent(int " stayopen );
.sp
.B void endnetent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgetnetent()\fP function reads the next line from the file
\fI/etc/networks\fP and returns a structure \fInetent\fP containing
the broken out fields from the line.  The \fI/etc/networks\fP file
is opened if necessary.
.PP
The \fBgetnetbyname()\fP function returns a \fInetent\fP structure
for the line from \fI/etc/networks\fP that matches the network
\fIname\fP.
.PP
The \fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP function returns a \fInetent\fP structure
for the line that matches the network number \fInet\fP of type
\fItype\fP.
.PP
The \fBsetnetent()\fP function opens and rewinds the
\fI/etc/networks\fP file.  If \fIstayopen\fP is true (1), then the
file will not be closed between calls to \fBgetnetbyname()\fP and
\fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP.
.PP
The \fBendservent()\fP function closes \fI/etc/networks\fP.
.PP
The \fInetent\fP structure is defined in \fI<netdb.h>\fP as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 6
.ta 8n 16n 34n
struct netent {
	char	*n_name;		/* official network name */
	char	**n_aliases;		/* alias list */
	int	n_addrtype;		/* net address type */
	unsigned long int n_net;	/* network number */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
The members of the \fInetent\fP structure are:
.TP
.I n_name
The official name of the network.
.TP
.I n_aliases
A zero terminated list of alternative names for the network.
.TP
.I n_addrtype
The type of the network number; always AF_INET.
.TP
.I n_net
The network number in host byte order.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBgetnetent()\fP, \fBgetnetbyname()\fP and \fBgetnetbyaddr()\fP
functions return the \fInetent\fP structure, or a NULL pointer if an
error occurs or the end of the file is reached.
.SH FILES
/etc/networks           networks database file
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
BSD 4.3
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR getprotoent "(3), " getservent "(3), " networks (5)
