.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Compiled from glibc.info, 2002 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.TH LOGIN 3 2002-01-28 "GNU/Linux" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
login, logout \- user accounting functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <utmp.h>
.sp
.BI "void login(const struct utmp *" entry );
.br
.BI "int logout(const char *" ut_line );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR login ()
inserts a new entry into the user accounting database (utmp file).
The element
.IB ut \->ut_line
will be set to the name of the terminal on standard input.  If this is
not a terminal,
.BR login ()
will use the standard output or standard error output to determine the
name of the terminal.  The element
.IB ut \->ut_type
.\" (if there is one)
will be set to
.BR USER_PROCESS ,
and
.IB ut \->ut_pid
.\" (if it exists)
will be set to the process ID of the calling process.
All remaining elements will be copied from
.IR entry .

A copy of the resulting
.I entry
is written to the user accounting log file.

The
.BR logout ()
function modifies the user accounting database to indicate that the
user on terminal
.I ut_line
has logged out.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The
.BR logout ()
function returns 1 if the entry was successfully written to the
database, or 0 if an error occurred.
.SH NOTE
These functions are included in libutil, hence you'll need to add
.B \-lutil
to your compiler commandline.

Note that the
member
.B ut_user
of struct utmp is called
.B ut_name
in BSD.  Therefore,
.B ut_name
is defined as an alias for
.B ut_user
in
.IR utmp.h .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/utmp
user accounting database, configured through _PATH_UTMP in
.I <paths.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR utmp (5),
.BR getutent (3)
