.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Sat Jun  4 20:38:26 MET DST 1994
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de), Thu Mar 16 18:46:23 MET 1995
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH PERROR 3 "March 16, 1995" "" "Library functions"
.SH NAME
perror \- print a system error message
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdio.h>
.sp
void perror(const char *s);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B perror
produces a message on the standard error output, describing the last
error encountered during a call to a system or library function.  The
argument string
.I s
is printed first, then a colon and a blank, then the message and a
new-line.  To be of most use, the argument string should include the name
of the program that incurred the error.  The error number is taken from
the external variable errno, which is set when errors occur but not
cleared when non-erroneous calls are made.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
ANSI C, POSIX
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR errno "(2), " strerror (3)
