.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" (C)opyright 1993 by Dan Miner (dminer@nyx.cs.du.edu)
.\"
.\"  Permission is granted to freely distribute or modify this file
.\"  for the purpose of improving Linux or its documentation efforts.
.\"  If you modify this file, please put a date stamp and HOW you
.\"  changed this file.  Thanks.   -DM
.\"
.TH KERNEL_MKTIME 9 "July 5, 1993" "Linux 0.99.10" "Kernel Reference Guide"
.SH NAME
kernel_mktime \- convert startup \fIstruct\ mktime\fP
into the number of seconds since 00:00:00 January 1, 1970
.SH SYNOPSIS

linux/kernel/mktime.c

long kernel_mktime(struct mktime * time);
.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine is called from time_init(void), 
linux/init/main.c.  kernel_mktime()
converts \fIstruct\ mktime\fP 
(initialized from CMOS) into an encoded long.
.SS "Conversion Method"
First an array, \fImonth[12]\fP, is created holding how 
many seconds has passed to reach a peculiar month, for a \fIleap\fP year.
Next, it substracts 70 from the current year, making 1970 the beginning year.
It is math magic after this point, please look yourself.  If you know
why it does this, then send email (see nroff source).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns the encoded time in a long
.SH FILES
.nf
linux/kernel/mktime.c              home of routine
.fi
.SH NOTES
This routine is call only during startup of the kernel.
.sp
Historically, the value (encoded long) counts the number 
of seconds since the \fBEpoch\fP, which
occurred at 00:00:00 January\ 1,\ 1970 and 
is called \fICoordinated\ Universal\ Time\ (UTC)\fP.
In older manuals, this event is 
called \fIGreenwich\ Mean\ Time\ (GMT)\fP.
.SH WARNINGS
kernel_mktime() doesn't check to see if the year is greater than 1969.  Be 
sure your CMOS is set correctly.  It is customary to set on-board clocks
to GMT and let processes who ask for the time to convert it to local time, if
necessary.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
For kernel use only.
.SH AUTHOR
Linus Torvalds
