.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Jochen Karrer
.\"                     <cip307@cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de>
.\"                     <http://cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de/~cip307>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH PLUG_DEVICE 9 "OCTOBER 1995" "Linux 1.2.13" "Kernel Reference Guide"
.SH NAME
plug_device, unplug_device
\- Insert and remove dummy requests from a request queue.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf  

.B #include <linux/blkdev.h>

.B "static void plug_device(struct blk_dev_struct * dev, 
.B "            	    struct request * plug);
.B static void unplug_device(struct blk_dev_struct * dev);

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
There is a linked list of requests for every blockdevice. A new
request will be sorted into the list, and then the request function
of the device driver will be called. But if there are no outstanding requests,
the call to the request function would cause the requests being processed
before the others are linked into the list, so the request function of
device drivers is prevented from processing by a dummy request.
.RS
.RE


.B plug_device()
.RS
inserts a dummy request to the request list of a device if there
is currently no outstanding request in the queue.
This prevents the requests from beeing started before they are
sorted, because a blockdevice driver
has to return from the request function without processing such a
request. 
This is done  by
filling the invalid device number -1 and the invalid command -1 to the
.RI "request pointed to by " "plug" ". In Kernel 1.3.28 or newer rq_status" 
will be set to 
.I RQ_INACTIVE 
(see request(9)).

.RE

.B unplug_device()
.RS
.RI "If there is a dummy request for the device pointed to by " "dev",
it will be removed from the request list, 
and the outstanding requests will be processed.
.RI

.SH SOURCES
linux/drivers/block/ll_rw_block.c

.SH BUGS
Block device drivers have to test if the request is aktive. I think
this is not necessary, because this could be tested before calling
the request function. 
 
.SH AUTHOR
Linus Torvalds

.SH SEE ALSO
request(9), make_request(9), add_request(9), get_request(9)
