.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Jochen Karrer <cip307.cip.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.TH VREMAP(9)  "AUGUST 1995" "Linux 1.3.15" "Kernel Reference Guide"
.SH NAME
vremap 
\- remap an arbitrary physical address space into the kernel virtual
address space.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf  
.B "void * vremap(unsigned long offset, unsigned long size);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vremap()
.RI "remaps " size " bytes from the physical memory starting at " offset " to the
.RI "kernel space. " "offset" " has to be page aligned and " "size " 
becomes page aligned.  
Needed when the kernel wants to access high addresses
directly.

The physical memory is 1:1 mapped to the kernel space. 
Some IO cards use memory frames with addresses 
behind the physical memory or even use 
addresses higher than the size of the kernel space ( 1GB on i386 ).
In this case vremap() can be used.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.B vremap()
returns a void pointer to the virtual address of the mapped memory, and
.B NULL
on failure. vremap() will fail if no area is available in the 
virtual address space of the kernel, if the address wraps around the end of the
.RI "physical address space, if " offset " is not page_aligned, 
.RI "and if " offset 
is lower than the end of physical RAM , because this is already mapped to
kernel space. 

.SH SOURCES
.B  linux/mm/vmalloc.c 

.SH BUGS/LIMITAIONS
vremap() is only available in kernel 1.3.10 or newer.
There is no include file with a declaration of this function, and it is not
exported for use in modules. 

.SH AUTHOR
Linus Torvalds
